# Git hooks

## What are Git hooks?

Built-in scripts Git executes before or after commits, pushes, and receives. These vary widely in functionality.


## How they work

Each Git repository comes with a `.git/hooks` folder where scripts for each hook that can be bound to.

To install a script, place any executable in the `.git/hooks` folder and name it according to the hook you mean to bind to.

## Client-side hooks

### `pre-commit`

Runs first, before the commit message prompt and allows you to inspect the snapshot that's about to be inspected.

Great for running tests, linting code and removing whitespaces.

### `prepare-commit-msg`

Runs before the commit message editor is launched but after the default message is created.

Great for editing the default message and templating.

### `commit-msg`

Runs after the commit message is saved.

Great for validating commit messages.

### `post-commit`

Runs after the entire commit is completed.

Great for notifications.

### `pre-rebase`

Runs before you rebase anything.

### `post-checkout`

Runs after a successful `git checkout`.

Great for setting up working environment, especially when large (untracked) binaries are involved.

### `post-merge`

Runs after a successful `git merge`.

## Server-side hooks

### `pre-receive`

Runs when handling a push from a client. Only

### `post-receive`

Runs after a push from a client is fully processed.

Great for notifying users and other systems such as the CI and IM applications.

### `update`

Very similar to the pre-receive hook but may run multiple times, depending on the amount of branches being pushed.

The `pre-receive` hook only runs once, no matter how many branches are pushed.

# Github Webhooks

## What is a Webhook?

Technical: An user defined HTTP callback that is triggered by a certain event that occurs at the source site.

Simple: A web service endpoint that listens to requests from a source and/or sends requests to a target.

Each hook can be configured to a specific service and any number of events.

## Setting up a Webhook

1. Go to the **Settings** page of your repository.
2. Click on **Webhooks & services**.
3. Click on **Add webhook**.

## Payload URL

This is the server endpoint that will handle the Webhook.

## Available events

commit\_comment | create | delete | deployment\_status | deployment | fork | gollum | issue\_comment | issues | member | page\_build | public | pull\_request\_review\_comment | pull\_request | push | release | status | team\_add watch

---

## Wildcard events

`*`

You'll receive every event.

## Payload

The POST request body, usually contains a JSON document.

Each event type has its own unique payload object.

## Sample Payload

```
POST /payload HTTP/1.1

Host: localhost:4567
X-Github-Delivery: 72d3162e-cc78-11e3-81ab-4c9367dc0958
User-Agent: GitHub Hookshot 044aadd
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 6615
X-Github-Event: issue
```
```javascript
{
  "action": "opened",
  "issue": {
    "url": "https://api.github.com/repos/octocat/Hello-World/issues/1347",
    "number": 1347,
    ...
    },
    "repository" : {
      "id": 1296269,
      "full_name": "octocat/Hello-World",
      "owner": {
        "login": "octocat",
        "id": 1,
        ...
        },
        ...
        },
        "sender": {
          "login": "octocat",
          "id": 1,
          ...
        }
      }
      ```
